# AMR-project-C


## Abstract
The risk of developing an eating disorder among university students is higher than the general population in Bangladesh. Since psychiatric disorders (such as depression and anxiety) and addictive behaviors (e.g., internet addiction) predominantly exist among university students in the country, these may increase their vulnerability to developing an eating disorder. The association of internet addiction, depression, and anxiety with the risk of eating disorders among Bangladeshi university students is relatively unknown; therefore, this study investigates the association. This study was a cross-sectional design. Students (N = 700) from two public universities in Bangladesh completed the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) scale, the Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) tool, and Orman's Internet Addiction Survey (OIAS) to measure exposure variables. Eating Attitudes Test-26 (EAT-26) assessed the outcome variable. Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that internet addiction [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) for moderate addiction = 2.15 and severe addiction = 3.95], depressive (aOR 3.04), and anxiety (aOR 2.06) symptoms were associated with an increased risk of eating disorder among study participants. Future longitudinal studies on university students are recommended to gain a better understanding about the causal factors of eating disorder to support intervention initiatives and strategies by public health practitioners and policy experts.
